design/unions.md, before:

## Design for support of unions in Cadl

### Cadl Unions

There are two ways to define a union in Cadl.

1. using the "|" symbol, e.g. `Cat | Dog`.
2. with a `union` statement, which (currently) requires that each variant of the union has a name. E.g.

```
union Pet { cat: Cat, dog: Dog }
```

#### cadl-autorest

In cadl-autorest, any union containing more than one non-null model is an error,
except as the return-type of an operation, where union variants can represent the body of different responses (status codes).

#### cadl-rpaas-controller

In cadl-rpaas-controller, any union containing more than one non-null model is an error,
except as the return-type of an operation, where union variants can represent the body of different responses (status codes).

#### openapi3

openapi3 will emit "|" unions as an `anyOf`.

openapi3 will support a `@oneOf` decorator on the `union` statement which specifies that a union defined in a `union` statement should be emitted as a `oneOf`:

E .g.

```cadl
model Cat extends Pet {
  kind: "cat";
  meow: int32;
}

model Dog extends Pet {
  kind: "dog";
  bark: string;
}

@oneOf
union Pet {
  cat: Cat,
  dog: Dog,
}

```

will be rendered in openapi3 as:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Pet:
      oneOf:
        - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Cat"
        - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Dog"

    Cat:
      properties:
        kind:
          type: string
          enum: ["cat"]
        meow:
          type: integer
      required: ["kind", "meow"]
    Dog:
      properties:
        kind:
          type: string
          enum: ["dog"]
        bark:
          type: string
      required: ["kind", "bark"]
```

In openapi3, a union defined with a `union` statement without an `@oneOf` decorator will be rendered as an `anyOf`

openapi3 will ignore the "names" for variants in named unions.

### Discriminated Unions

Both cadl-autorest and openapi3 will support the `@discriminator(propertyName)` decorator on a `model`.

E .g.

```cadl
@discriminator("kind")
model Pet {}

model Cat extends Pet {
  kind: "cat";
  meow: int32;
}

model Dog extends Pet {
  kind: "dog";
  bark: string;
}

```

Notes:

- Until the subtyping feature is implemented, this will implicitly define `propertyName` as a required string property of the model.
- When subtyping is implemented, `propertyName` should be defined in the model. It can be defined either as "string" -- "open" style, or as a union of string literals or as an enum -- a "closed" type.
- The model can have other properties besides the discriminator.
- When `@discriminator` is specified we should verify that "propertyName" is defined in each model that extends the discriminated model as a string property and required. We should also ensure that all constant values of the discriminator are unique.

#### cadl-autorest

In cadl-autorest, a model with the @discriminator decorator and all models that extend it will produce an "oas2 discriminated union" with autorest extensions, e.g.:

```yaml
definitions:
  Pet:
    discriminator: kind
    properties:
      kind:
        type: string
    required:
      - kind

  Cat:
    x-ms-discriminator-value: cat
    allOf:
      - "#/defintions/Pet"
    properties:
      kind:
        type: string
      meow:
        type: integer
    required: ["kind", "meow"]
  Dog:
    x-ms-discriminator-value: dog
    allOf:
      - "#/defintions/Pet"
    properties:
      kind:
        type: string
      bark:
        type: string
    required: ["kind", "bark"]
```

Notes:

- cadl-autorest will issue a warning if the discriminator property in a variant is not a string literal value.
- cadl-autorest suppresses the `enum` for the discriminator property since autorest does not allow it.
- The `x-ms-discriminator-value` extension is only produced if the discriminator property in the variant is a (single) string constant.

#### cadl-rpaas-controller

The cadl-rpaas-controller will to use the discriminator property to deserialize a request payload into the appropriate class.

The cadl-rpass-controller emitter will generate an abstract class for Pet and concrete classes for Cat and Dog that extend Pet.
Any operation parameter types using 'Pet' will accept and correctly deserialize actual types corresponding to 'Cat' or 'Dog'.
Any return types using 'Pet' will accept either 'Cat' or 'Dog'.
(Deserialization of parameter types and serialization of return types are here given from the service perspective, as cadl-rpaas-controller is generating service code).

#### openapi3

In openapi3, a model with the @discriminator decorator and all models that extend it will produce an ["oas3 models with polymorphism pattern"](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/3.0.3/versions/3.0.3.md#models-with-polymorphism-support).

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Pet:
      discriminator:
        propertyName: kind
        mapping:
          cat: "#/components/schemas/Cat"
          dog: "#/components/schemas/Dog"

    Cat:
      allof:
        - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pet"
      properties:
        kind:
          type: string
          enum: ["cat"]
        meow:
          type: integer
      required: ["kind", "meow"]
    Dog:
      allof:
        - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pet"
      properties:
        kind:
          type: string
          enum: ["dog"]
        bark:
          type: string
      required: ["kind", "bark"]
```

Notes:

- oas3 allows but does not require the discriminator property to be defined in the parent model.
- The "mapping" part of the discriminator will reflect any variants with a discriminator property defined as a string literal. OpenAPI 3 does not require the mapping to be exhaustive.
- openapi3 will allow a variant to define its discriminator with more than one string literal. E.g. `kind: "cat" | "dog"`.

### Discriminated Unions with "fat" base models

As mentioned above, a model with the @discriminator decorator may contain properties other than discriminator.

E.g.

```cadl
@discriminator("kind")
model Pet {
  name: string;
  weight: float32;
}

model Cat extends Pet {
  kind: "cat";
  meow: int32;
}

model Dog extends Pet {
  kind: "dog";
  bark: string;
}

```

#### cadl-autorest

In cadl-autorest this is rendered as:

```yaml
definitions:
  Pet:
    discriminator: kind
    properties:
      kind:
        type: string
      name:
        type: string
      weight:
        type: number
        format: float
    required: ["kind", "name", "weight"]

  Cat:
    x-ms-discriminator-value: cat
    allOf:
      - "#/components/schemas/Pet"
    properties:
      kind:
        type: string
      meow:
        type: integer
      required: ["kind", "meow"]
  Dog:
    x-ms-discriminator-value: dog
    allOf:
      - "#/components/schemas/Pet"
    properties:
      kind:
        type: string
      bark:
        type: string
      required: ["kind", "bark"]
```

### openapi3

In openapi3 this is rendered as

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Pet:
      properties:
        name:
          type: string
        weight:
          type: number
          format: float
      required: ["name", "weight"]
      discriminator:
        propertyName: kind
        mapping:
          cat: "#/components/schemas/Cat"
          dog: "#/components/schemas/Dog"

    Cat:
      allOf:
        - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pet"
      properties:
        kind:
          type: string
          enum: ["cat"]
        meow:
          type: integer
      required: ["kind", "meow"]
    Dog:
      allOf:
        - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pet"
      properties:
        kind:
          type: string
          enum: ["dog"]
        bark:
          type: string
      required: ["kind", "bark"]
```

Commit message:

Repo-wide rename from RPaas to Providerhub (#1175)
* Initial checkin

* Update submodule

* rename cadl-sample\rpaas to providerhub

* repo-wide renaming from rpaas to providerhub

* Rename change files to match the renamed packages rpaas

* Adding change log for the rename

* Update readme.md

* Correct casing for ProviderHub

* Rename

* Regen samples

* update newly introduced files.

* Update case sensitive RPaaS to ProviderHub

* Regen samples after merge

* Remove merge error

design/unions.md, after:

## Design for support of unions in Cadl

### Cadl Unions

There are two ways to define a union in Cadl.

1. using the "|" symbol, e.g. `Cat | Dog`.
2. with a `union` statement, which (currently) requires that each variant of the union has a name. E.g.

```
union Pet { cat: Cat, dog: Dog }
```

#### cadl-autorest

In cadl-autorest, any union containing more than one non-null model is an error,
except as the return-type of an operation, where union variants can represent the body of different responses (status codes).

#### cadl-providerhub-controller

In cadl-providerhub-controller, any union containing more than one non-null model is an error,
except as the return-type of an operation, where union variants can represent the body of different responses (status codes).

#### openapi3

openapi3 will emit "|" unions as an `anyOf`.

openapi3 will support a `@oneOf` decorator on the `union` statement which specifies that a union defined in a `union` statement should be emitted as a `oneOf`:

E .g.

```cadl
model Cat extends Pet {
  kind: "cat";
  meow: int32;
}

model Dog extends Pet {
  kind: "dog";
  bark: string;
}

@oneOf
union Pet {
  cat: Cat,
  dog: Dog,
}

```

will be rendered in openapi3 as:

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Pet:
      oneOf:
        - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Cat"
        - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Dog"

    Cat:
      properties:
        kind:
          type: string
          enum: ["cat"]
        meow:
          type: integer
      required: ["kind", "meow"]
    Dog:
      properties:
        kind:
          type: string
          enum: ["dog"]
        bark:
          type: string
      required: ["kind", "bark"]
```

In openapi3, a union defined with a `union` statement without an `@oneOf` decorator will be rendered as an `anyOf`

openapi3 will ignore the "names" for variants in named unions.

### Discriminated Unions

Both cadl-autorest and openapi3 will support the `@discriminator(propertyName)` decorator on a `model`.

E .g.

```cadl
@discriminator("kind")
model Pet {}

model Cat extends Pet {
  kind: "cat";
  meow: int32;
}

model Dog extends Pet {
  kind: "dog";
  bark: string;
}

```

Notes:

- Until the subtyping feature is implemented, this will implicitly define `propertyName` as a required string property of the model.
- When subtyping is implemented, `propertyName` should be defined in the model. It can be defined either as "string" -- "open" style, or as a union of string literals or as an enum -- a "closed" type.
- The model can have other properties besides the discriminator.
- When `@discriminator` is specified we should verify that "propertyName" is defined in each model that extends the discriminated model as a string property and required. We should also ensure that all constant values of the discriminator are unique.

#### cadl-autorest

In cadl-autorest, a model with the @discriminator decorator and all models that extend it will produce an "oas2 discriminated union" with autorest extensions, e.g.:

```yaml
definitions:
  Pet:
    discriminator: kind
    properties:
      kind:
        type: string
    required:
      - kind

  Cat:
    x-ms-discriminator-value: cat
    allOf:
      - "#/defintions/Pet"
    properties:
      kind:
        type: string
      meow:
        type: integer
    required: ["kind", "meow"]
  Dog:
    x-ms-discriminator-value: dog
    allOf:
      - "#/defintions/Pet"
    properties:
      kind:
        type: string
      bark:
        type: string
    required: ["kind", "bark"]
```

Notes:

- cadl-autorest will issue a warning if the discriminator property in a variant is not a string literal value.
- cadl-autorest suppresses the `enum` for the discriminator property since autorest does not allow it.
- The `x-ms-discriminator-value` extension is only produced if the discriminator property in the variant is a (single) string constant.

#### cadl-providerhub-controller

The cadl-providerhub-controller will to use the discriminator property to deserialize a request payload into the appropriate class.

The cadl-rpass-controller emitter will generate an abstract class for Pet and concrete classes for Cat and Dog that extend Pet.
Any operation parameter types using 'Pet' will accept and correctly deserialize actual types corresponding to 'Cat' or 'Dog'.
Any return types using 'Pet' will accept either 'Cat' or 'Dog'.
(Deserialization of parameter types and serialization of return types are here given from the service perspective, as cadl-providerhub-controller is generating service code).

#### openapi3

In openapi3, a model with the @discriminator decorator and all models that extend it will produce an ["oas3 models with polymorphism pattern"](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/3.0.3/versions/3.0.3.md#models-with-polymorphism-support).

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Pet:
      discriminator:
        propertyName: kind
        mapping:
          cat: "#/components/schemas/Cat"
          dog: "#/components/schemas/Dog"

    Cat:
      allof:
        - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pet"
      properties:
        kind:
          type: string
          enum: ["cat"]
        meow:
          type: integer
      required: ["kind", "meow"]
    Dog:
      allof:
        - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pet"
      properties:
        kind:
          type: string
          enum: ["dog"]
        bark:
          type: string
      required: ["kind", "bark"]
```

Notes:

- oas3 allows but does not require the discriminator property to be defined in the parent model.
- The "mapping" part of the discriminator will reflect any variants with a discriminator property defined as a string literal. OpenAPI 3 does not require the mapping to be exhaustive.
- openapi3 will allow a variant to define its discriminator with more than one string literal. E.g. `kind: "cat" | "dog"`.

### Discriminated Unions with "fat" base models

As mentioned above, a model with the @discriminator decorator may contain properties other than discriminator.

E.g.

```cadl
@discriminator("kind")
model Pet {
  name: string;
  weight: float32;
}

model Cat extends Pet {
  kind: "cat";
  meow: int32;
}

model Dog extends Pet {
  kind: "dog";
  bark: string;
}

```

#### cadl-autorest

In cadl-autorest this is rendered as:

```yaml
definitions:
  Pet:
    discriminator: kind
    properties:
      kind:
        type: string
      name:
        type: string
      weight:
        type: number
        format: float
    required: ["kind", "name", "weight"]

  Cat:
    x-ms-discriminator-value: cat
    allOf:
      - "#/components/schemas/Pet"
    properties:
      kind:
        type: string
      meow:
        type: integer
      required: ["kind", "meow"]
  Dog:
    x-ms-discriminator-value: dog
    allOf:
      - "#/components/schemas/Pet"
    properties:
      kind:
        type: string
      bark:
        type: string
      required: ["kind", "bark"]
```

### openapi3

In openapi3 this is rendered as

```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Pet:
      properties:
        name:
          type: string
        weight:
          type: number
          format: float
      required: ["name", "weight"]
      discriminator:
        propertyName: kind
        mapping:
          cat: "#/components/schemas/Cat"
          dog: "#/components/schemas/Dog"

    Cat:
      allOf:
        - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pet"
      properties:
        kind:
          type: string
          enum: ["cat"]
        meow:
          type: integer
      required: ["kind", "meow"]
    Dog:
      allOf:
        - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Pet"
      properties:
        kind:
          type: string
          enum: ["dog"]
        bark:
          type: string
      required: ["kind", "bark"]
```
